LinkedIn is killing organic reach and
here's what to do about
[Music]
it hey I'm Sam Dunning host the top 10
B2B marketing podcast business growth
show and to check out my week daily
email tips podcast resources playbooks
and whenever you're ready to apply to
work with me head over to Sam Dunning
dorg so I'm recording this episode it's
November 2023 and if I look back at
previous posts on LinkedIn from the last
six months four months or so ago
scrolling through the top performing
ones these are mixture of text posts
Carousel posts so PDF sliders image
posts and video posts so posts we're
getting from 35k
views 15K views 13k views 10K
views 9k views 8K views a mixture of
images text posts sliders like I say
some m in there some videos so all in
all quite decent a 5k
plus almost as a minimum for decent
performing ones and then if I go to of
more recent posts from the last month
four weeks or so ago posts are getting
1K
views again another one with
1.6k some 300
740 1K 800 so down almost four to five
times compared to what I was getting for
six months ago so it's a massive decline
in views impressions in general and I'm
hearing that across the board so I've
got a bunch of friends marketers
business owners Etc most of them are
saying the same thing that organic reach
seems to be down massively right now on
LinkedIn so why the heck would LinkedIn
do this to us I mean it's been such a
good platform on organic reach for years
and years why now well my opinion is
that they want to push something called
thought leader ads now what thought
leader ads are is they essentially
enable you to boost personal profile
posts to a selected audience so that
could be retargeting website visitors or
perhaps drilling down so your posts show
to your target client profiles using
LinkedIn ads you can make sure that they
display to those personas those job
titles those Industries and sectors that
you actually want to see your content
because when you post the LinkedIn
algorithm might not share it with
exactly who you want to see it so it's a
really good way to get targeted views on
your content and build trust awareness
and possibly inbound leads and Deals so
LinkedIn thought lead ads essentially
they look super organic so they sh up as
a normal post the only difference being
is that when you actually post them
under the person's picture their
headline it has a little bit of text
saying sponsored or boosted or promoted
by the company name so it literally say
say promoted by than the company name
that is pretty much the only difference
they look super organic pretty sure that
LinkedIn want to boost this feature and
in my humble opinion that's why they're
slowly reducing the organic reach to try
and encourage you to spend your cash
with them which kind of makes sense
being a business and all now don't get
me wrong LinkedIn is still a fantastic
platform in fact it's by far from what
I've seen the best be to be platform
from a social standpoint the organic
reach like youve just seen still isn't
terrible it's just down a lot more from
what it was months ago but LinkedIn for
me certainly has been a solid platform
to put out content of different types
like I mentioned earlier text posts
video posts image posts and more build
up my authority in my case around B2B
SEO B2B websites and B2B Marketing in
your case it could be relevant to your
Niche great place to build Partnerships
make friends get recommendations when I
need help and build up Authority in my
Niche so essentially I post content
every day and when prospects need what I
do over time they build more and more
trust in what I do my reputation in my
proof of results and when they're ready
they usually DM me on LinkedIn and I get
a steady flow of inbound leads and you
can do much the same in your Niche by
creating content engaging in the feed
having a solid profile page that clearly
shares what you do how you help problems
you fix some proof of results much like
a website much like a landing page so
LinkedIn still is solid it's just it's a
shame that the reach is down so much in
terms of organic
posting so how can you combat LinkedIn
droing organic reach and how can you
reduce risk for your business rather
than relying solely on algorithms of
social channels like LinkedIn that may
or may not give you a good impression
count and show your content to the Right
audience you can start investing your
time cash and resources into channels
that you own and that you control so I'm
going to jump in and share some that I
use and that I recommend for B2B
companies so first up we've got your
website and this is quite literally the
foundation of your marketing efforts
most cases this is going to be the first
Port of cool when a prospect hears about
you searches for you gets recommended to
you that they're going to flick on and
it needs to be your very best
salesperson after all it's going to be
live 24/7 around the clock and from B2B
perspective most of the time your
website needs to do a lot of hard work
so when a prospect first flicks to your
site they want to quickly see the juicy
problem that you fix exactly how you
help them get a job done how you improve
their business or improve their life
they probably want to check some proof
of results whether that's customer
stories case studies examples of what
results that you've achieved maybe
that's testimonials videos or more they
probably want to see your price they
want to see how much much it actually
costs to work with you whether that's a
monthly fee prices starting from or
something slightly different they
probably want to see you offer an action
especially if you're a SAS business or
some kind of Technology they want to see
screenshots gifs maybe a demo video or
an interactive demo on the site they
want to get their common questions
answered so anything around Integrations
pricing like I mentioned how long does
it take do I get an account manager all
those juicy common questions you get and
providing that you check all those boxes
around problem you fix how you help how
much it costs proof of results you
answer their questions then you want to
make it super super easy for them to
book a time with a salesperson whether
that is a direct calendar booking
integration or a simple form so there's
clear cool to action to book that demo
or request that consult so they can
easily get that time booked with a sales
professional in your B2B Tech or service
company so remember the website has got
to do a lot of leg work another thing to
to mention is that it can also have
useful resources so for those prospects
that are not quite ready to have a sales
convo just yet you might have useful
resources like podcasts videos blog
articles that address those common
questions queries problems that
prospects might face so you can then get
them into your ecosystem build trust at
the top of the funnel so when they're
eventually ready you're the company that
they trust in to have that convo so do
not neglect your website it is the one
thing you can fully control you can
fully own to making sure it's done right
because you can constantly add to it
improve it make edits make content
changes make messaging changes design
changes and all that so it's the rock
solid foundation of your marketing
efforts to convert those prospects into
sales calls and Deals make sure you get
it right make sure it's geared towards
what Target clients care about next
we've got creating an audio podcast or
starting video out on YouTube or do a
mix of both like I do with my podcast
business growth show B2B marketing and
demand generation podcast so I actually
do a mix of guest episodes and solo
episodes so for example on solo episodes
I will essentially do episodes dedicated
to common questions I get asked how to
do something why isn't this working best
ways to do X best ways to do why I
address problems frustrations queries
that I get on prospecting calls sales
calls customer calls and more reason
being if people are regularly asking
these things I know it's going to be de
in demand there's going to be a lot of
demand for it and it's going to be
Evergreen content that people are
actually searching for answers for
whether that's on Google YouTube or the
podcast channels so it can build
expertise in your Niche build trust
build confidence build Authority and
send inbound leads your way or there's
the guest episode tactic where you can
go down a few routes you can interview
Target clients ask them great questions
build relationships with them and over
time build inbound from that or you can
interview famous people in your Niche
and again build an audience around that
build confidence in your niche in your
industry and then distribute those onto
audio channels like apple Spotify get
them up on YouTube get them produced
build an audience build a following
build Brand Build reputation and drive
inbound leads that way there's quite a
few routes you can go down but if you
want an in-depth B2B podcasting guide
check out the only B2B podcast guide you
need if you search the only B2B podcast
guide you need Sam Dunning then you can
check that listen to the podcast or
watch it turn those episodes into long
form blogs small social posts video
clips audio clips share them with guests
share them with prospects there's so
much replay value in a podcast and
YouTube channel next we've got lead
magnets and building an email list super
powerful owned assets so what the heck
is a lead magnet a lead magnet is
basically a free or sometimes paid
giveaway product guide Playbook video
course whatever where you can either do
it free of charge or take a payment you
get the person's contact info typically
their email address and in return they
get something that's going to be useful
I've done a bunch of these one recent
one is The Ultimate Guide to B2B SEO
that I recently did another update to
and the good thing about these is that
in my case I give them away all free I
think at the moment near 800 people that
have downloaded this B2B seo1 and if you
want my free guides just head over to
samd dunn. org and you can grab them all
there so essentially I try to give as
much value as possible I think this
one's about 47 Pages the B2B SEO guide
and the way I actually send traffic to
it is on podcast I'll reference it and
on LinkedIn posts I sometimes put a PS
check out my free SEO guide and then
I'll link to that in the comments and
people will grab that I've also got a
link to it on my LinkedIn profile page
so it's an easy way for people to click
through and grab those guides and this
all fuels my mailing list but gumroad is
a tool that I use as the way to add
these lead magnets again like I say
they're now all all free some used to be
paid but I've got a website guide I've
got SEO guides I've got a couple other
lead gen website guides and I used to
have a LinkedIn guide there as well all
great ways to give people free value
build some trust in your industry and
get that email and all those emails then
for a zapia feed so when someone
downloads one the lead magnets zapia
pings it into MailChimp which is my tool
for email list and at the moment I send
out a week daily email and usually it's
a website tip or an SEO tip or a B2B
marketing tip or idea or story or
perhaps a new podcast episode and I will
send that to my right now audience of
we've got 1248 subscribers that get
those daily email tips but the power of
an email list is that it's not run by an
algorithm an algorithm doesn't control
who it goes to that sends to your list
they can of course opt out whenever they
want but you can control that content
you can control exactly who it gets sent
to you can each day or each week or each
month however frequently you send them
out you can stay top of mine with the
audience you can drive them to certain
assets and you've got control over that
and you're not relying on an algorithm
like I mentioned so super powerful way
consider a useful lead magnet consider
building an email list and it's
something that's been quite effective
for us to stay top of mind with our
audience I'm SEO search engine
optimization the process of getting your
website page one of Google's organic
non-paid results to ramp up your web
traffic ramp up your brand and get those
juicy inbound leads or demos for your
sales team you might say sam well we
don't control Google so how is this an
owned Channel well you can control your
website so control the content that you
put out there whether that is service
offer Persona Pages Etc that you want to
rank that prospects might be searching
for your offer you make sure those pages
are optimized so they've got
best-in-class content you're researching
the keywords that you want them to be
targeted for sorting out your technical
SEO your metadata your heading tags your
image tags making sure the page loads
nice and speed Speedy it's got a great
user
experience it's focused on conversion
it's got good social proof it answers
problems addresses questions removes
anxiety and encourages prospects to
convert and it's really well-written
content that actually care about
learning and educating themselves on and
likewise you've got blog articles that
might be higher up the funnel when
someone's searching for a question an
issue you fix a job to be done you're
educating the market again you're making
a really useful resource section on your
website with those useful articles
people actually want to learn about so
when they are earlier in that sales
funnel process they see you as a trusted
person a trusted brand a trusted company
so SEO certainly the content that you're
putting your website is what you can
control and you can own and you can make
sure you have an impact on improving
those organic results relevant to your
Niche to attract prospects ready to buy
now or earlier in that sales fun or
comparing options so that is something
you can have a big impact on in your
business and there you have it I hope
this has given you some ideas and
encourage you not to just rely on rented
channels like social media and Linkedin
where you don't control the algorithm
and to invest in building an audience on
channels you do control one extra tip is
when you are channels like LinkedIn why
not every now and then point your
audience to your email newsletter lead
magnet website podcast YouTube so you
are encouraging them to go onto those
other channels building that audience
and building trust brand reputation and
driving leads on those channels you've
got a lot more control over and there we
have it if you enjoy today's episode a
rating or review on Apple or Spotify is
much appreciated or subscribe on YouTube
goes a long way and for more free
resources or to check out my week daily
emails or whenever you're ready to apply
to work with me head over to samd dunn.
org cheers